Hello, my name is Ga Kay Gao, and I'm here to talk to you about video games. If you are like me, you grew up with video games all around you.
My cousins owned almost every type of video game system imaginable, and since I always hung out with them, I was always playing some kind of 
game. For some people, video games was a way to escape the real world. You could be anybody you wanted to be.

You could be a fighter, 
a chef,
a spy; the list goes on. 

In this century where technology is growing so rapidly and more and more people are sitting in front of TV and computer screens, video games
have become a very popular source of entertainment. In the present, we have what I like to call 

"Modern Games". These types of games are characterized by high-detailed graphics, in-depth story lines, a captivating soundtrack, and often a 
lot of violence. 

Some popular games out right now are Call of Duty, Assassin's Creed, and Grand Theft Auto. Games like these have beeen praised fortheir high
level of graphic details, but games haven't always been this way. If we take it back 20-30 years, games looked extremely different. I like 
to call these games 

"Old Schoolor Retro Games". These are the games that can only be played on older consoles and are characterized by 8-bit graphics, 
8-bit soundtracks,clunky controls, and sometimes a short storyline. Keep in mind that the technology available back then was limited, and games of this 
era were amazing to the video game community.

Some popular titles you may recognize are Legend of Zelda, Punch-Out!!, and Mario Kart 64.

All of these games, both modern and old school, are amazing in their own way, but where did all this actually begin? What was the very first 
video game? 

These have been many debates on this which has caused of a lot of uncertainty about the answer to these questions. Every single 
person has their own definition of what is classified as a "video game" so it's hard to say that one is more right than the other, but there
has been one particular game that has become popular, and that game is called 

Tennis for Two. Tennis for Two was first introducted on October 18, 1958 by creater William Higinbotham on one of the lab's visitors' days.

Higinbotham was a nuclear physicist and decided that previous science exhibits were too boring. 

He wrote, "it might liven up the place to have a game that people could play". 

Tennis for Two was a fairly simple idea. Two people had separate controllers that were both hooked up to an anolog computer that used on oscillscope 
for a screen. The ball was brightly lit and would move side to side on the screen across both sides of the net. Players could use the buttons on
the controllers to serve and volley the ball and the rotating dials to control the angle of the invisible tennis racket. After the creation of 
Tennis for Two, hundreds of people lined up to play one of the first video games. Higinbotham might have created this game merely as entertainment 
for the exhibit's visitors, but little did he know, his creation would lead to the start of the video game industry.

Video game consoles rose in popularity because it allowed people to play from the comfort of their own home. Consoles were split up into generations.
The first generation was from 1972-1976. Unlike game systems today, the first gen game systems actually came with their respective games instead of 
having to buy each one seperately. They were often characterized by the entire game being on one screen, basic lines and dots, single-channel or even
no audio, and black and white graphics. 

Some popular consoles of the first gen were the Phillips Odyssey and the Magnavox Odyssey.

Next came the second generation. The second gen was from 1976-1983. These consoles were charactized by the addition of AI opponents, three audio channels,
basic color graphics, and ROM cartridges for storing games that allowed more than just one game to be played on a single console. 

Some popular consoles of the second gen were Atari 5200 and Arcadia 2001.

The third generation was from 1983-1987. These consoles were charactized by D-pad game controllers, higher screen resolutions, better color graphics, and 
more audio channels. 

Some popular consoles that you might be able to recognize better than the first and second gen are the Nintendo Enertainment System (NES), and the Sega Master System. 

The fourth generation was from 1987-1995. These game systems had more powerful multiprocessors, multi-button game controllers, complex background and screenplay,
and of course, even better graphics. 

Some popular consoles of this generation were the Super Nintendo Entertainment System and the Sega Genesis.

Next, we have the fifth generation, which was from 1993-1999. This is around the start of when I started owning some of these consoles. These systems were 
characterized by an extensive color-depth, 3D polygon graphics, full motion video, and larger storage space. 

Popular systems include the Playstation and the Nintendo 64.

The sixth generation was from 1999-2005. These game systems supported 128-bit which was a lot more compared to the 32 and 64 bit that previous generations
supported. This higher level of power allowed this generation of consoles to have even more storage, better graphics, and overall better gameplay. 

Some popular consoles were the Nintendo GameCube, the Playstation 2, and the Xbox. The consoles of this generation would be the lead into the next two generations.
 
The seventh generation started in 2005 and ended in 2012. 

Some popular consoles were the PlayStation 3, Nintendo Wii, and the Xbox 360. This generation 
of games was the first to introduce the idea of using motion as a way to control the games. This generation also allowed the consoles to work as not only a game
system but a Blu-ray and DVD player. 

The eighth generation, which started in 2012, is the most recent generation of video game systems. 

The game systems of this generation are the Wii U, PlayStation 4,and the Xbox One. This generation was essentially an upgrade of the seventh generation consoles. 

Now that we are caught up to the present, what's next? There are a number of new technologies being developed that will allow the gaming industry to be even 
better than before. People have grown up always looking at some sort of screen to play a video game, but what if instead of having to look at a screen, you 
could physically look all around you and see a video game. 

This is actually possible with a new technology called the Oculus Rift. The Rift is a virtual reality head-mounted display that projects a 3D reality around the 
user that the user can control using the Rift's six degrees of freedom. This device can allow users to feel like they are actually in the game. Imagine playing
a game and being able to physically look around the room and see the video game. This idea is awesome in itself, but what about being able to move? 

The Oculus Rift, or similar products such as that, have been paired with the Omni Treadmill. This new technology, similar to an actual treadmill, allows players 
to physically move in any direction. The treadmill monitors the user's speed and postion of their movements and moves accordingly to keep the user towards the
center of the treadmill.

With the combination of these two products, the user has an almost full video game experience. Although this looks kinda of funny, I believe that more and more 
video games will be able to support the use of these types of technologies in the future, which will change the video game industry as we know it. 

Taking note of the foundation initially laid out by Tennis for Two and other similar games and constrasting with technologies today proves that the gaming industry will only continue to grow.

